# MISC

## STM32Projects

### BlackPill_Init 
##### This project just sets up the Black Pill hardware using HAL, as seen in the IOC file; there is no code in "main.c" that runs behind it.  The LED is set as a GPIO output on Port C, pin 13.  The user button is set as a GPIO input on Port A, pin 0.  USART1 is configured for 115200 baud on pins PA9 (Tx) and PA10 (Rx), and there is a function in the "main.c" file that enables sending data to UART1 using "printf" statements.  The system clock is set to maximum - 100 MHz - using the high speed external oscillator. 

### BlackPill_Blink 
##### This project blinks the user LED on pin PC13 with a blocking HAL delay in between each toggle.  Uses HAL functions. 


### BlackPill_Blink2
##### This project blinks the user LED on pin PC13 with a delay in between each toggle, but instead of using a wasteful HAL delay between each toggle, the LED toggles after a certain number of "systicks" loop have accrued.  It also prints out a statement to the serial terminal after a certain number of passes has accrued.  To see the print results, you need to connect a USB <-> Serial TTL adapter Rx pin to the PC and use a serial terminal application to view the output.  

### BlackPill_ExtIntBlink2
##### This project is similar to "BlackPill_Blink2 regarding the LED toggle, but checks for the number of systicks that have accrued.  It also prints to the serial port every time the user button is pressed by detecting the external interrupt generated by the button press.  And with each button press, the toggling speed of the LED changes.  

### BlackPill_ExtIntBlink
##### This project is similar to "BlackPill_Blink2 regarding the LED toggle, but checks for the number of systicks more efficiently by removing comparison operators from the if() statements.  It also prints to the serial port every time the user button is pressed by detecting the external interrupt generated by the button press.  And with each button press, the toggling speed of the LED changes. 

### BlackPill_Timer1
##### The LED toggles here after a certain amount of time has elapsed on Timer 4, which generates an interrupt.  The system clock is 100 MHz, the Timer 4 prescaler is 10,000 and the Timer 4 period is 5000.  This means the timer will generate an interupt with a frequency 100E6/10E3/5E3 = 2Hz, and the LED will therefore toggle every 500 milliseconds.  

### BlackPillBlink_NoHAL
##### Shows how to toggle the user LED on Port C Pin 13 without using the HAL libraries.  Very simple program, but if you try to repeat it from scratch, you will see how tedious it is to go through the board schematic, the datasheet, and the reference manual.  But by doing this you can really learn alot.  A project like this also gives one an appreciation of how much time using the HAL libraries can save.  

### BlackPill_PWMBlink1
##### Here, we use a timer to generate a PWM signal having a frequency of 100 Hz whose duty cycle monotonically increases and decreases.  Since we are using Timer 4, Channel 1, the PWM output signal is visible on Pin B6 of the Black Pill board if you hook up an oscilloscope.  Or, you can connect a jumper wire between Pin B6 and Pin C13, and you will see the LED brightness increase and decrease as the PWM signal duty cycle decreases and increases, respectively. (Since Pin C13 is the cathode, or negative side of the LED, the LED gets brighter as the signal on Pin C13 goes lower.)  

### F407_Timer1
##### For this project, we use the STM32F407G Discovery board.  The board has 4 user LEDs, and conveniently these LEDs can be connected to Channels 1 through Channel 4 of Timer 4.  This allows us to vary the duty cycle of each LED independently since each channel has its own PWM settings.  

### F407_RNG_NoHAL
##### Shows how to generate random numbers from the STM32F407G-Discovery hardware random number generator without using HAL.  